I was sought by those who did not ask
for me I was found by those who did not
seek me I said Here I am Here I am to a
nation that was not called by my name I
have stretched out my hands all day long
to a rebellious people who walk in a way
that is not good according to their own
thoughts a people who provoke me to
anger continually to my face who
sacrifice in gardens and burn incense on
altars of brick who sit among the graves
and spend the night in the tombs who eat
swine's flesh and the broth of
abominable things is in their vessels
who say keep to yourself do not come
near me for I am holy other than you
these are smoke in my nostrils a fire
that burns all the day behold it is
written before me I will not keep
silence
but will repay even repay into their
bosom your iniquities and the iniquities
of your fathers together who have burned
incense on the mountains and blaspheme
me on the hills therefore I will measure
their former work into their bosom thus
says the Lord as the new wine is found
in the cluster and one says do not
destroy it for a blessing is in it so
will I do for my servants sake that I
may not destroy them all
I will bring forth descendants from
Jacob and from Judah an heir of my
mountains my elect shall inherit it and
my servants shall dwell there
Sharon shall be a fold of flocks and the
valley of Achor a place for herds to lie
down for my people who have sought me
but you are those who forsake the Lord
who forget my holy mountain who prepare
a table for GAD and who furnish a drink
offering for money
therefore I will number you for the
sword and you shall all bow down to the
slaughter because when I called you did
not answer when I spoke you did not hear
but did evil before my eyes and chose
that in which I do not delight therefore
thus says the Lord God behold my
servants shall eat but you shall be
hungry behold my servants shall drink
but you shall be thirsty behold my
servants shall rejoice but you shall be
ashamed behold my servants shall sing
for joy of heart but you shall cry for
sorrow of heart and wail for grief of
spirit you shall leave your name as a
curse to my chosen for the Lord God will
slay you and call his servants by
another name so that he who blesses
himself in the earth shall bless himself
in the god of truth and he who swears in
the earth shall swear by the God of
truth because the former troubles are
forgotten and because they are hidden
from my eyes for behold I create new
heavens and a new earth and the former
shall not be remembered or come to mind
but be glad and rejoice forever in what
I create for behold I create Jerusalem
as a rejoicing
and her people a joy I will rejoice in
Jerusalem and joy in my people the voice
of weeping shall no longer be heard in
her nor the voice of cry no more shall
an infant from there live but a few days
nor an old man who was not fulfilled his
days for the child shall die one hundred
years old but the sinner being one
hundred years old
shall be accursed they shall build
houses and inhabit them they shall plant
vineyards and eat their fruit they shall
not build and another inhabit they shall
not plant and another eat for as the
days of the tree so shall be the days of
my people and my elect shall long enjoy
the work of their hands they shall not
labour in vain nor bring forth children
for trouble for they shall be the
descendants of the blessed of the Lord
and their offspring with them it shall
come to pass but before they call I will
answer and while they are still speaking
I will heal the wolf and the lamb shall
feed together the lion shall eat straw
like the Ox and thus shall be the
Serpent's food they shall not hurt nor
destroy in all my holy man
you